[Music]
for me mathematics was always
fascinating because a subject where you
really didn't need to learn things by
heart you really had to understand it
was very passionate about learning and
doing well in exams but I also had fun I
was a tomboy and my family was a little
worried but they encouraged me my area
is at the intersection of algebra and
number theory using algebraic techniques
to study very deep questions in number
theory I had a very good mentor who was
very understanding of the problems that
women might face and especially when
they are passionate about their work and
they have to be focused on the work-life
balance I've been diagnosed with a form
of brain cancer and I had to undergo
emergency surgery a couple of years back
that was the biggest barrier I would say
seems to be quite common for the male
groups to hang around together our men
will just go let's say in the evening
we'll go for a drink
and it's an extended form of
professional communication that would
seep into this and you're judged as if
you were part of that professional
conversation I am a passionate believer
in diversity at the workplace not just
in science but in all endeavors if we do
not have diversity then the problems the
full set of problems are never captured
in a country like India I find it
especially disturbing that parents are
afraid when their daughters do very well
in school because they see it as a
possible hindrance to their marriage
prospects my advice to young girls and
their parents would be to have full
trust in themselves full confidence you
know I'm always amazed by how surprised
people are when a woman speaks about
science with passion and I want to tell
them it's the most natural thing it's
just that women have been given a chance
to speak about it with passion
[Music]
you